DMG p165

SWORDS (III G)
All magic swords receive their stated bonus both for purposes of hitting (as
a bonus to the "to hit" die) and for damage (as + 1, +2, +3, etc. addition
to hit points of damage scored). The special features of listed swords are
described below. Thereafter, considerations of unusuol aspects of swords
are listed, i.e. intelligence, abilities, powers, purpose, alignment, languages,
and ego. Finally, the effects of unusuol swords are dealt with. Note
that few swords will have any unusual aspects.
All +5 Holy Avenger swords are lawful good. All Swords of Sharpness are
of chaotic alignment. All Vorpal Weapons are lawfully aligned.
Most swords (and all daggers) of magical nature shed light when drawn
from their scabbard (see ADVANCED DUNGEONS 8 DRAGONS, PLAYERS
HANDBOOK, THE ADVENTURE, Light). The sale exceptions are the Flame
Tongue, Frost Brand, Holy Avenger, Life Steoling, and Sharpness swords,
and these will be dealt with individually.
Whenever a sword has some unknown quality - such as the wishes in a
Luck Blade or a sword with unusual aspects, you should prepare a special 3
X 5 index card on it and keep the information handy whenever the
possessor of the weapon is playing.

Sword +1, +2 vs. magic-using and enchanted creatures, gives its + 1
bonus always, +2 when employed against magic-users, monsters which
can cast spells, conjured, created, goted, or summoned creatures. Note
that the +2 would not operate against a creature magically empowered
by some item to cast spells- such as a ring of spell storing.

Sword +1, +3 vs. lycanthropes and shape changers, gives its +3 agoinst
were creatures, those able to assume the form of another creature (such as
a vampire or a druid), or any creature under the influence of a polymorph
or shape change spell.

Sword +1, +3 vs. regenerating creatures, will give the +3 bonus to its
wielder even when the regenerating creature does so because of a
magical device - such as a ring of regeneration.

Sword +1, +4 vs. reptiles, gives the +4 against such creatures as dinosaurs,
dragons, hydras, lizards, snakes, wyverns, etc.

Sword + 1, Flame Tongue, +2 VS. regenerating creatures, + 3 vs. cold using,
inflammable, or avian creatures, +4 vs. undead, sheds light only
when its possessor speaks a command word or phrase, and this flame illuminates
the area as brightly as a torch. Note that the flame from this
sword easily ignites oil, burns webs, or sets fire to paper, parchment, dry
wood, etc. Cold-using creatures are those whose attack mode involves
cold (ice toads, white dragons, winter wolves, yeti, etc.)

Sword +1, Luck Blade, gives its possessor +1 on a11 saving throws and
will have from 2-5 wishes (you must keep a secret note of the number and
their use) determined by d4 +l.

Sword +2, Giant Slayer, has a +3 bonus versus any giant, ettin, ogre
mage, or titan. Against any of the true giants (hill, stone, frost, fire, cloud,
storm) the sword does double domage, i.e. 2-24 + 3 or 5-27.

Sword +2, Dragon Slayer, has a +4 against any sort of true dragon and
against 1 sort it will do triple damage i.e. 3-36 + 4 or 7-40. Note that an
unusuol sword with intelligence and alignment will not be made to slay
dragons of the same alignment. Determine dragon type-by random roll,
excluding the singular ones (Bahamut and Tiamat):
	black (CE)			gold (LG)
	blue (LE)			green (LE)
	brass (CG)			red (CE)
	bronze (LG)			silver (LG)
	copper (CG)			white (CE)

Sword +2. Nine lives Stealer, will always perform as a +2 weapon, but
it also has the power to draw the life force from an opponent, and it can do
so only a total of 9 times before the ability is lost. A natural 20 must be
scored on the wielder's "to hit" die roll for the sword to function. The
opponent is entitled to a saving throw versus magic in such case, and if it is
successful the sword does not function, no charge is used, and normal
damage is determined.

Sword +3, Frost Brand, +6 vs. fire using/dwelling creatures, bestows
the +6 bonus in a self-explanatory manner. The weapon does not shed
any light, except when the air temperature is below 0" F, but it does give
special benefits against fire, for its wielder is protected os if he or she were
wearing a ring of fire resistance and whenever it is thrust into fires it has a
50% chance of extinguishing them in a 10' radius - including a wall of
fire but excluding a fireball, meteor swarm, or flame strike.

Sword +4, Defender, gives its wielder the option of using all, some, or
none of the +4 bonus in defense against any opponent using a hand held
weapon such as a dagger, mace, spear (not hurled), sword, etc. For
example, the wielder can on the 1st round of battle opt to use the sword as
+2 and save the other 2 bonus factors to be added on to his or her armor
class. This can be done each round.

Sword, +5. Holy Avenger, is a holy sword. In the hands of any character
other than a paladin, it will perform only as a +2 sword. In the hands of a
paladin, however, it creates a magic resistance of 50% in a 5' radius,
dispels magic in a 5' radius at the level of magic use equal to the experience
level of the paladin, and inflicts +10 hit points of bonus damage
upon chaotic evil opponents. (Cf. also ADVANCED DUNGEONS 8 DRAGONS,
PLAYERS HANDBOOK, CHARACTER CLASSES, The Paladin.)

Sword of Dancing is progressively and doubly dangerous. On the 1st round
of melee it is +l, on the 2nd +2, on the 3rd +3, and on the 4th it is +4,
but it then drops to + 1 on the 5th round and again goes upwards. After 4
rounds of melee its wielder can opt to allow it to "dance". "Dancing" cansists
of loosing the sword on any round when its bonus is + 1. The sword
then fights at the same level of experience as its wielder, doing so for 4
rounds. Thereafter, it must again be grasped, as it returns to its wielder, i.e.
it is loosed to "dance" far 4 rounds, going from + 1 to +4, and must be
again held by its wielder at a +1 stage and physically used for 4
successive rounds of melee combat. When "dancing", the sword will
leave its owner's hand and may be up to 3" distant, and at the end of its
4th round of solo combat it will move to its possessor's hand automatically.
Note that when "dancing" the sword cannot be physically hit, although
certain magic attacks such as a fireball, lightning bolt, or transmute metal
to wood could affect it. Finally, remember that the dancing sword fights
alone at the same level (and class) of its possessor - if a 4th level fighter,
the sword fights alone exactly the same; if a 7th level thief is the wielder,
the sword will so fight when "dancing". Thus relieved of his or her
weapon for 4 melee rounds, the possessor may act in virtually any manner
desired, as dictated by circumstances, and so long as he or she remains
within 3" or less of the sword (otherwise it falls "lifeless" to the ground
and is a +1 weapon when again grasped). The possessor can rest, discharge
missiles, draw another weapon and engage in hand-to-hand
combat, etc.

Sword of Wounding is a sword of only + 1 bonus, but any hit it makes cannot
be healed by regeneration, and the opponent so wounded loses 1 additional
hit point per round for each wound inflicted by the sword on the
round after such a wound is received. Thus,' an opponent hit for 4 points of
damage on the 1st melee round will automatically lose 1 additional hit
point on the 2nd and each successive round of combat. Loss of 1 point stops
only when the creature so wounded bandages its wound or after 10 melee
rounds (1 turn). Damage from a sword of wounding can be healed only by
normal means (rest and time) - never by potion, spell, or other magical
means short of a wish. Note that successive wounds will damage in the
same manner as the first.

Sword of life Stealing is a +2 weapon which will eliminate 1 level of experience
(or hit die) and its accompanying hit die and abilities when it
strikes any opponent with a score of a natural 20 on the "to hit" die roll.
This function is exactly the same as the life energy level draining ability of
certain undead creatures. The sword wielder will gain as many hit points
as an opponent loses to this function of the weapon, subiect to the limit of
his or her maximum number of hit points predetermined by rolling hit
dice, i.e. only a character who has somehow suffered loss of hit points can
benefit from the function.

Sword of Sharpness is a weapon which is treated as +3 or better for
purposes of who or what can be hit by it, even though it gets only +1
bonus "to hit" and on damage inflicted. Its power is great, however, for on
a very high "to hit" die roll as shown below it will sever an extremity -
arm, leg, neck, tail, tentacle, whatever- determined by random dice roll:
	Opponent is				Modified score to sever*
	norma/armored				19-21
	larger than man-sized		20-21
	solid metal or stone		21
A sword of sharpness will respond to its wielder's desire with respect to the
light it sheds - none, a 5' circle of dim illumination, a 15' light, or a 30'
radius glow equal to o light spell.
Considers only the sword's bonus of + 1.

Sword, Vorpal Weapon, is similar but superior to a sword of sharpness. A
vorpal weapon is +3 "to hit" and for damage bonus. When a score on the
"to hit" die as shown below is made, it will sever the neck/head of its opponent:
	Opponent is				Modified score to sever*
	normal/armored				20-23
	larger than man-sized		21-23
	solid metal or stone		22-23
Considers only the sword's bonus of +3.
The DM will note that there are many creatures that cannot suffer
decapitation due to lack or mutability of form. There are also certain
creatures that may have heads but will not necessarily be killed by
decapitation (among these are dopplegangers, elementals, and golems).

Sword +1, cursed, performs in all respects as a +1 weapon, but when its
wielder is faced by an enemy the sword will weld itself to the cahracters
hand and force him or her to fight until the enemy or the wielder is slain.
Thereafter, the possessor can loose, but never rid himself or herself of the
cursed sword. No matter what is done, it will appear in his or her hand
whenever an opponent is faced. To be free of the weapon, the character
must have a cleric exorcise it.

Sword -2, cursed, is a sword which gives off a magical aura and performs
well against targets in practice, but when it is used against an opponent in
combat it lowers hit probability by-2 for its user, although only by careful
observation can this lowering of probability be detected; all damage
scored is likewise reduced by 2 hit points, but never below a 1 in any
event. The sword will always force the character to employ it against
enemies, teleporting to the character's hand. It can be gotten rid of only by
means of limited wish, wish, or alter reality.

Sword, Cursed Berserking performs by every test, save that of the heat of
battle, as a +2 magic sword of some sort. However, in actual battle its
wielder will go berserk, attacking the nearest creature and continuing to
fight until dead or until no living thing remains within 6" of him or her. The
sword has a +2 bonus and otherwise acts as a +1 cursed sword. The
possessor of a Cursed Beserking Sword can be rid of it only if it is exorcised
or wished away.

-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
UA p104

SWORDS (lll.G.2.)

Sword, Short, of Quickness is a specially dweomered blade that enables
the wielder to strike first in every combat round. It is also a + 2
magic weapon, with the bonus applicable to both hitting and damage.

Sword of the Planes is only forged as a broadsword. Its particular enchantment
is such that it has a base bonus of + 1 when operating on
the Prime Material Plane - but when it is on any of the Inner Planes
its dweomer increases to +2, and this bonus also applies on the
Prime Material Plane when the weapon is used against opponents
from the Inner Planes. Similarly, when it is used on one of the Outer
Planes or against creatures from the Outer Planes, the sword becomes
a +3 weapon. And it operates as a +4 weapon when employed
on the Astral or Ethereal Plane or against opponents from
either of those planes.

Sun Blade swords are all of great size and must be treated as bastard
swords. Their dweomer is such, however, that an individual possesing
a sun blade may wield it as if it were a short sword with respect to
encumbrance, weight, speed factor, and ease of use. In other words,
the weapon appears to all viewers to be a bastard sword, and it inflicts
damage as if it were a true sword of that sort, but the individual using a
sun blade feels and reacts as if the weapon were a short sword. Any
individual able to use either a bastard sword or a short sword with proficiency
or expertise will be able to use a sun blade. In normal combat,
the glowing golden blade of the weapon is equal to a +2 magic
sword. Against evil creatures, its bonus is doubled to +4. When it is
used against creatures from the Negative Material Plane or those that
draw power from that plane (such as many of the undead), the sword
will inflict double normal damage, regardless of whether the bonus of
the weapon is + 2 or + 4. Furthermore, upon command, a sun blade
can be swung vigorously through the air, and the blade will shed a
bright yellow radiance which equals full daylight. The radiance will begin
shining within a 10-foot radius around the sword-wielder and will
spread outward at 5 feet per round for 10 rounds thereafter, thus englobing
an area of 60-foot radius. Thereafter, the radiance fades to a
dim glow which persists for another 10 rounds before disappearing
entirely. This sunray power of the blade can only be used once per
day. All sun blades are of good alignment.

Sword, Anything will originally appear to be a sword +1 of any type
- short, long, etc. Upon command, however, it will change into any
desired type of magic sword of any power (for instance, from a short
sword + 1 to a holy avenger + 5 of long, bastard. or even twohanded
sort). The sword will remain as commanded for 1 day (24
hours) or until it performs a special, highly powerful function such as
draining a level, severing some body part, etc. The sword can be
commanded to assume another form no more than three times, and
each form is singular and may not be repeated; i.e., the weapon can
be a dancing sword but once, a frost brand but once, and a vorpal
blade but once. After changing upon ciomrnand for a third time and
then reverting to its original form, the anything sword loses all of its
dweomer and is thereafter an ordinary blade. This type of sword can
never have intelligence, ego, communication power, or any other sort
of special ability.

Sword, Broad, “Final Word” Type is a very rare item -only nine of
these blades are known to exist. Each is patterned after the legendary
broadsword Fragarach (which means “final word” in the tongue of
the ancient Oeridians). Each of these weapons is thought to have a
differing alignment, but in all other respects each is alike. If a creature
of an alignment different from that of the sword attempts to wield it in
battle, the weapon has no bonuses. In the hands of a creature of like
alignment, the sword becomes a +3 blade which always strikes last
in any round, but which will strike unerringly and do damage to any opponent
that struck at the wielder earlier in the same round, regardless
of whether the opponent(s) successfully hit the wielder, up to the
wielder’s allowable number of attacks per round. (Of course, since
the weapon is a + 3 blade, opponents immune to weapons of less
than + 4 value will not be harmed.) Each of these swords has a gem of
10,000 gp value set in its pommel, and each gem is different in type
from all the others. Each sword also bears an identifying name; the
nine appellations are “Answerer,” “Back-talker,” “Concluder,” “Lastquip,”
“Rebutter,” “Replier,” “Retorter,” “Scather,” and “Squelcher

from Tables
								XP Value	GP Value
Sword + 1, + 3 vs. regenerating creatures 800 4,000
Sword + 1, + 4 vs. reptiles		800			4,000
Sword + 1, Flame Tongue: +2 vs. regenerating creatures + 3 vs. cold-using, inflammable, or avian creatures + 4 vs. undead 						900 		4,500
Sword + 1, Luck Blade			1,000 		5,000
Sword + 2 ’						800 		4,000
Sword + 2, Giant Slayer			900 		4,500
Sword +2, Dragon Slayer			900			4,500
Sword, Short, Quickness (+2)	1,000		8,000
Sword +3						1,400		7,000
Sword + 3, Frost Brand: + 6 vs. fire using/dwelling creatures 1,600 8,000
Sword of the Planes				2,000		15,000
Sword + 4						2,000		10,000
Sword + 4, Defender				3,000		15,000
Sword + 5						3,000		15,000
Sword + 1, Cursed				400			---
Sword -2, Cursed				600			---
Sword, Cursed Berserking		900			---
Sun Blade						3,000		20,000
Sword, Anything					5,000		35,000
Sword, Broad, “Final Word” Type 10,000		50,000*
Sword of Dancing				4,400		22,000
Sword + 5, Defender				3,600		18,000
Sword + 6, Defender				5,000		30,000
Sword + 5, Holy Avenger			4,000		20,000
Sword + 6, Holy Avenger			7,000		40,000
Sword of Life Stealing			5,000		25,000
Sword + 2, Nine Lives Stealer	1,600		8,000
Sword of Sharpness				7,000		35,000
Sword, Vorpal Weapon			10,000		50,000
Sword of Wounding				4,400		22,000


